So let's fix some more bugs
in our get rancher app,
now we have four more to
go through this afternoon.
And these are gonna be a little bit
different than than the ones we
fixed this morning.
Here's one that we found
during developer time.
So I was working on the app, and I noticed
that after a while of using the app,
the fan on my Mac started like blowing
real hard and I looked at the memory
utilization and like Chrome was just
eating up multiple gigs of memory.
So I kind of feel like maybe there
is a memory leak somewhere inside of
get ranter, and so
let's see if we can figure out how
to prove that there's a memory leak.
And if we can diagnose where it
might be in the application.
And so in order to do that, first we
need to go back to our Keystone user,
the main user that I wanna interact with.
So I'm gonna switch
back to my terminal and
I wanna load back up my primary user,
so that's node import 2.
Should bring Donald back in, And
then I'm going to npm start and
get this whole thing going again.
So if I reload my page here,
I should see my main user here again,
excellent.
So let's figure out first if
a memory leak exists here,
cuz there's a couple of different tools
that Chrome makes available to us to
inspect the memory utilization
of our applications.
Some of you might be thinking,
it's just a JavaScript applications,
we don't need to worry about memory
like that's a server side thing.
No, JavaScript consumes a lot of memory,
and the more advanced applications that we
start building in the web,
the more we need to be concerned about it.
How many times have you seen have like
17 tabs open in your browser, and
notice your computer's
running really slow.
Chances are a lot of those web pages
are running a lot of JavaScript, and
they're eating up a lot of
the resources on your machine.
So all apps, even JavaScript browser
apps need to worry about memory.
So there's a couple tools we can use,
the first one we're gonna look at is
called profiles, and profiles allow
you to take a bunch of different kinds
of metrics about your application.
The one that we particularly care about
right now, is the allocation profile.
And the help text even shows error,
tells us what this is good for,
this records, the allocation
profile show memory allocations
from your JavaScript functions.
And so it's useful for
us to help understand whether or
not, memory is leaking out of our app.
So I'm gonna go ahead and
start this running, and
it's good to let this run for
a little while so
we can see what sort of things
are happening as the application goes on.
This is recording anytime a piece
of JavaScript is running in my app,
it does something,
when does it allocate new memory,
versus when does it release old memory.
So I'm just gonna let this keep running
for probably about 20 25 seconds and
we're gonna get a good picture of
what sort of activity is happening
in the background of my application here.
So I think hopefully that should be
enough time, and I'm going to stop it.
Shit, I did the wrong one, my apologies,
[LAUGH] rewind we need to do
the record allocation timeline.
I even read the wrong one, [LAUGH]
the recording the allocation timeline,
shows memory allocations, but use this
profile type to isolate memory leaks.
It even says it right there, we're
gonna record the allocation timeline.
So we're gonna run start there and
this time,
it's more intelligently gonna tell me for
how long it's been running.
So this thing we have this little timer
going across, it's impossible to see
cuz the contrast ratio is too low
until it did that right there.
And what this is showing is it's showing
us different times our application has
allocated memory as part of its actions.
Now the line shows as bright blue for
memory that is still being held on to,
so our application grabs a new
memory from the system, and
it's still holding unto it.
Whereas the grey lines which are kinda
hard to see on the projector screen, but
hopefully you will be able to see that
when you playing with it yourself,
is memory that was allocated at one point,
and then later released.
So I'm gonna go ahead and
stop this now, And
we can take a look at this chart,
hopefully.
So this chart just kind of hard
to see cuz of the contrast ratio,
has a memory allocation happening
about every ten seconds is what we
see our application doing.
And the overall allocation is
right where my mouse cursor is,
it's about double what it is here, but
we're still retaining about 50 kilobytes
of memory on each one of these cycles,
the overall allocation at each new
time period looks to be about 100 K.
And then we clean up about half
of it before continuing on.
So if this pattern were to occur,
we're retaining about 50 kilobytes of
memory, every ten seconds forever.
This doesn't seem to ever clean itself up.
We never see those blue bars dropping
all the way down to 0 at the start.
And so if we were to be running
getRANTr for hours, days or
months at a time, this could add up
to fairly large amounts of memory.
Now, the other data on this
page is fairly low level and
kind of hard to reason about.
There's a lot of objects down here in this
table that describe the actual objects
that were created and
are still holding on to memory.
But unless you're really familiar with
the low level operations of the browser,
you're probably not gonna
understand what's going on there,
I certainly don't understand all of them.
Fortunately, we don't have to,
this is useful as evidence that
there is a memory leak occurring.
But it's not the best way to find out
where that memory is leaking out from.
For that we'll use a different tool,
we're gonna pop over to the timeline tool,
The timeline has a couple of different
really valuable things that we can do and
they just changed, there we go any moment.
The timeline shows us a couple of
different interesting things that
we can do.
It can take pictures of what kind
of network requests are being made,
what kind of memory is being consumed, and
what does your app look like
at different points in time.
And so it's useful for different kinds
of bugs, for what we're gonna do today,
I wanna look at what memory is being
allocated over the course of the timeline.
If you go into the Advanced Settings, you
can see like you can change other parts of
it or other kinds of data to capture,
we're not gonna turn any of these on.
This would enable you to disable
captioned JavaScript details,
I want to know JavaScript details,
and advanced paint instrumentation,
which is actually very slow to run.
So for this timeline,
I'm just going to capture memory.
So I'm going to open this back up, and
I'm going to record the operations.
Now if you had an app where most
operations happened during the users
interaction, you'd wanna be doing that
right now you'd want to be going in and
doing some sort of
interactions on the page so
that your JavaScript would
actually be exercising itself.
So I'm going to do that, I created a new
rant and now I'm going to delete it, and
that's basically all my app does here.
So I've exercised all of the code and
then anything else that's running
in the background should have
had 30 seconds or so to run.
So I'm gonna stop that, And
this is going to produce
a whole lot of information And
don't be intimidated because
we'll go through it,
it's all very well organized
once you kind of understand it.
At the very top here,
we see the actual timeline with all
of the data that we've captured.
Not all of this is relevant for
everything that we wanna do,
it's capturing things like the number of
frames per second the browser was running,
CPU consumed, network consumed and
memory consumed.
These are overall values, so
they might not necessarily be helpful
pointing you at what exactly is going on.
For us, we're concerned about memory, and
so what I wanna point at specifically,
is the heap,
which is the blue line here at the bottom.
The blue line here in this section
at the top where it says heap,
shows that we're running high on memory,
there was some garbage cleanup
event where we see it dropped down.
And then we seem to get
into that pattern again,
we're about every ten seconds, there
was a tick up in in memory utilization.
So it seemed to match what
we see in the profiles, but
we need to find out more information, so
that's where the rest of this comes in.
Another way to look at the same
information that might be a little easier
is the line charts at the bottom allow
you to make it a little bit bigger, and
showing more macro level information.
So it shows things like in blue,
the JS heap size, in red,
the number of documents which for
us is not really relevant, in green,
the number of nodes, so
the number of HTML nodes in your document.
And that's important from a memory aspect,
because storing HTML nodes is one of the
main source of the memory of the browser.
The number of HTML
listeners that attached,
and GPU if you're doing heavy
graphics stuff, which I am not.
So we can use this to as like a roadmap
to start guiding into where we want.
So I wanna look specifically at what's
going on in these big step functions,
what are these things that
are allocating all this memory,
because that'll be a good way of looking
at what code we need to examine.
My screen is not big enough for
all of this,
all right, so what I wanna do is I
wanna zoom in here on one of these.
In order to do that I can zoom
in using that top toolbar,
notice when you mouse over it,
you get a blue line that shows you like
an indication that you can select in.
Not only can you select in just by
dragging and dropping an area, you can
use gamer style keys if anybody used to
play like video games on their computers.
The keys W A S D on the keyboard,
or did they change that too?
No they didn't, the keys W A S D on the
keyboard, work just like as if you were
playing a video game where you can zoom in
and zoom out and strafe left strafe right,
y tou can like, have a little bit of
fun kind of exploring that's going on.
And you'll notice, as you kind of explore
around this timeline and as you zoom in,
that all those weird little lines
at that big chart in the middle,
they start getting bigger.
They start like, showing you that there's
a lot that was actually going on, and
notice we're really close in like, we're
at at the ten millisecond timescale here.
But as we keep zooming in on this step,
this memory increase, we see that it's not
one memory increase but a bunch of little
ones, all happening right in a row.
That's not even the one
I wanted to look at.
So as you continue zooming in on this,
you'll see that those
little ticks in that center area
are references to code executing.
That little tick of yellow
that's happening here in this 7
millisecond time frame,
is an XHR load event.
And we can see the entire call stack
here and how long that that call took,
the XHR load called this jQuery function,
which called into this anonymous function.
And we can scroll down and interact with
this entire call stack to see what parts
of our code we're actually running
as part of this memory increase.
Now there's a couple of different ones
here, the one that I want to look at,
must be that one there.
So we can see here's
a call that was happening
that was initiated by some
code here on a call to
/api/rant/ some weird ID,
the winter send and
called a bunch of other Ajax stuff.
We can see exactly how long
each step of this took, but
we don't see where
the memory is coming from.
You'll see particular calls that
increase the overall memory size,
will be shown in blue,
the things that create a limitation
on frames per second will be shown
in green, a GPU memory in pink,
all the color coding should work
throughout this this exercise.
I'm looking for a particular one, and
I don't know why I'm not finding it.
Here we go this one's it, So
here we see another call stack,
that is a call to XHR Load /api/ads.
Now this call stack also is increasing the
memory by the time it is completely done,
and this time we see a whole bunch of
different framework goo that I don't
really understand and
doesn't really make any sense.
Until I get down here, where I started
seeing some functions that make sense
to me, they are functions names from
my code, things like render, and
render ad, and collection each.
So I can punch into this, and
if I select a given key in here,
I'm short on space maybe shrink that up.
If I select a given key inside of that,
I should be able to see some
information in the summary below including
a link out to the file that it's in,
and so I can navigate directly
to it this adListView.js.
Now, adListView.js is now a suspect for
us, because in our timeline,
this is our code that's running
at a memory step up point.
And I'm sure it is one of them in
the other memory step of points as well.